>> Steve Kinney: So we're going
to this accident counter, right?
This one you can actually do an NPM
start and load up so you can see it.
>> Steve Kinney: I decided that seeing
this stuff esoterically as you do it for
the first time, maybe not that great.
So here we've got a little counter.
You can hit this button, and
you can update the days since
the last JavaScript-related accident.
You can hit Reset, Increment, Decrement.
You'll also notice two other tasting
notes here is that Decrement and
Reset are disabled until there's
something to decrement or reset.
You also notice that I
did incredibly hard work
of correct polarization on the word day,
right?
One thing I wanna show you is you're like,
this is great, but
also the title changes too.
Yeah, yeah, one thing that I wanna bring
to your attention real quick, cuz I think
that'll make it easier than just trying
to acquiesce what all these things are,
is there is a little Chrome extension
called Testing Playground, right?
>> Steve Kinney: What Testing Playground
does is it's kind of that inspect element,
but it will give you the best
possible accessible selector for it.
So that way if we were just looking at
the ones in the terminal, you'd have to
somehow know your accessibility queries
better than I can assume anyone does, but
here's what you do.
You can install that, you go into your dev
tools, you find this little frog hanging
out here,
>> Steve Kinney: I apologizes.
But then you can go ahead and
pick something and
it's gonna show you basically what
the best possible selector is for
that element that you want to find.
This way you don't have to guess and
know, you can kind of pull this open and
take a look.
And a lot of times this is useful
when you're developing too,
because if you don't have a great one,
a lot of times it will also give you
a recommendation too on what it should be.
So we look at the accident counter.
This one happens to be in React.
So that's fun.
The code itself is a React component.
You can know React,
you cannot know React, it doesn't matter.
You don't technically need to know
anything that's going on in here,
where we care is our fun
little test in this case.
So I will go ahead and do one.
In this case,
I brought in Testing Library/React,
that is different from DOM
because we're using React.
Like that way you don't have to
get the document body render root,
it's gonna do do that all for you.
The only new thing that it
does is you get this render
method which will take a JSX component,
right?
For those of you who don't use React,
I will show you the same idea in Svelte,
where there's no JSX, but
it's just taking the class name.
But you can see the Svelte one
also just has a render method, and
instead of taking JSX, it takes the class
name and then the props you wanna pass it.
Guess what the view one does?
Same basic thing.
The important part of testing is it
should not be framework specific, so
we've got a counter renders
with an initial count of 0.
The only reason you might wanna go into
this file is if you wanna see any of
the markup.
The only thing that we can add is
this data dash test ID is meaningful.
It's a other way that you can query stuff
that maybe doesn't have a very obvious
role or anything like that.
The argument here is that
classes mean things, right?
A lot of times we're
select by the given class.
People, designers change things.
Classes get applied to stuff,
those you don't want your test
tied to your style, right?
Could you look for it by class?
You absolutely could.
Should you know?
Because all you need to do is
end up changing some style.
Style, same with the regular IDs, but
a test ID shouldn't change based on
the needs of your design, right?
So in this case, we can go ahead.
It renders with an initial count of 0.
So what we can do here is say,
>> Steve Kinney: Count is screen because,
like we're looking at this from
the perspective of the entire DOM screen.
Get by Test ID.
And this point, what was it like?
I could go back to the other
tool I had to, counter count.
That's a good name.
>> Steve Kinney: Counter count,
and then we could do something
like,
>> Steve Kinney: And
you'll notice that that one
thing I have in the setup files,
all it does is add a bunch of
additional matchers to expect, right?
And so stuff like to have
attribute is literally looking for
an HTML attribute, right?
There are things that you could do on
your own to have class which is both
a way of conducting yourself,
as well as the classes on an HTML element.
To have focus, to have form value,
as well as all the other ones,
to have text content should
be by default 0, right?
We'll make this one to do for a second.
>> Steve Kinney: So, now what I can do,
>> Steve Kinney: Test,
all right, everything passes.
Well, that's still skipped.
It's passing because it's skipped.
Cool, all right, so now our counter
renders an initial count of zero.
Same thing we can do with this first one,
disables the decrement and
reset buttons when the count is 0.
>> Steve Kinney: So in this point,
again, we can do counter.
>> Steve Kinney: In this case,
we want the increment button,
the decrement button, right?
Or decrement and reset.
Decrement button is screen.getByRoll.
Now, if you don't remember the syntax,
So what do you do?
>> Student: Extension.
>> Steve Kinney: You use the extension,
yeah.
There's also a library where
you can paste in HTML and
do it, if you just have the HTML and
you don't wanna load it all up.
I'll share in a second, there's a link
where you can just paste in some HTML and
do the same, it's the same tool.
GetByRole button and name,
in this case is going to be,
>> Steve Kinney: Decrement,
a pattern that you will see a lot
is to use a case insensitive regex.
>> Steve Kinney: That way,
if like the casing changes on the button,
like your tests don't break.
Or if the button where it says decrement,
but can say decrement, 0 or 1,
or something like that,
you're finding one that matches this.
You will see that pattern as well,
Reset button.
>> Steve Kinney: Screen.getByRole.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool,
and then we can expect,
>> Steve Kinney: Check this out.
Look at that helpful matcher.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, all right?
What would we be angry about?
Yeah, that's not a real thing.
>> Steve Kinney: Let's talk
about what's happening.
>> Steve Kinney: In counter.tsx,
we got a counter component.
Great, awesome.
This could be anything.
It could be one component
in your entire application.
It could be just like
yeah one little thing.
It could be the entire
application component.
I would argue you should probably be
something smaller because when we get to
the browser-based testing,
that'll make sense to do that.
But this is just a React component.
There's nothing special about it,
we can ignore that.
All that's happening on our
test is we are right now,
we're pulling in this render and screen,
screen is a way to just kind of like,
give ourselves some helpers for finding
stuff with the accessibility stuff.
Could you do document.query selector?
You could, you have all of
the DOM APIs available to you, right?
I will argue that the free stuff that you
get from going by accessibility queries
It helps you in a different
area of your life.
But if you're like, I hate this,
this stresses me out, I just wanna
use QuerySelector, I'm not writing tests,
go use document.queryselector.
Do whatever you want, I don't care.
But effectively, before each,
we render the counter, right?
Just that component.
And then we go find it on
the page to validate that it
rendered with the selectors
that we expect that it should.
And then we've got these helpers of,
okay, this counter, which yeah,
I did annotate with the counter count test
ID, has the text content of 0, right?
Not very much different than those add and
subtract functions that we saw earlier,
right?
With the extra ceremony of
mounting something on a page.
Okay, go ahead and
get a button with the name decrement.
Go ahead and get a reset button,
which is a button on the page
with the word reset, right?
And then we can use these
expected out of the box,
they are in fact disabled, right?
And like I said before, not fundamentally
different than those add and
subtract functions, right?
The test itself, other than some
new methods that we brought in,
are roughly the same.